Levels are organized into four zones with five levels each.
The zones are split based on the geometry of the space.
The levels within a zone are numerically ordered and increase in complexity.
During gameplay, levels get unlocked as gameplay mechanics get introduced.
More than one level can be unlocked at once.
One zone is not strictly more complex than another.


Minkowski zone:

Level 1:
The player spawns in a flat spacetime with cartesian coordinates.
They are near an station that follows the lab reference frame.
The player is confined to one dimensional motion.
The player is given brief instructions on how to move.
After moving to the station, they are told to initiate conversation.
The station turns out to be a mobile border patrol station.
The station crew talks about how the player should've been clear for entry
but that he had acted out of protocol. They need to send a signal to a defense
platform to notify them of the player's entry into the sector.
The station sends the signal and tell the player to stay nearby while waiting
for the response.
The player must control their motion to remain close to the station.
The defense platform replies with a request for identification. The station
gives the player null particles so they can send a response.
The level ends when the response arrives at the platform.
If the player wanders closer toward their home sector before they are clear
for entry, they trigger the defense system and lose.
A similar event happens if they go backward, they will exit their sector
and enter their sector of origin. But they will do so out of protocol,
triggering the foreign sector's defense system and losing.
Loss does not mean restarting the level, any actions can be undone.

Level 2:
The player spawns in a flat spacetime with cartesian coordinates.
They spawn near an outpost that follows the lab reference frame.
The player may move in all dimensions.
The player should move to the outpost and initiate conversation.
The output crew will talk about how the player had brought along a trail
marking tool that will be useful for their construction project.
The player turns out to be one of the construction crew.
The player is told to visit the six vertices of an octahedron, returning to the
center point after each one. The output is in the center of the octahedron.
The player is given brief instructions on how to move in three dimensions,
the meaning of the direction indicators, and the energy gauge.
Each vertex of the octahedron has requirements on the player's velocity, when
visiting the vertex the player can initiate conversation with its crew
and they will tell the player if they marked the trail correctly.
The player might move too quickly to return to the center, if this happens
the crew will chastise the player. On the first occurrence the player will
receive energy so that they can make the trip back. After that, the player
gets dismissed from the job and loses the level.
After each vertex, the outpost provides enough energy for a round trip.
The level ends after the player successfully visits the six vertices.
The player loses if they move out of bounds.

Level 3:
The player spawns in a flat spacetime with polar coordinates.
They player exists inside a spherical space station, and their spawn
location is near the end of a narrow corridor.
At the start of the level, the player makes a comment to themselves
about how they dislike navigating the narrow corridors of the station.
The player must navigate through a few turns inside the space station.
If the player collides with the wall, they lose the level.
First, the player moves radially outward. Then they move along an equatorial
line. Then they move along a line of longitude. Finally they move along a
line of latitude.
There will be a control center at the end of the corridor. Near the control
center, the player can fire a null particle of high energy.
The player must initiate conversation with the control center, where they tell
the player that they are ready to begin the test firing experiment. They tell
the player to aim the particle radially outward.
If the player tries to fire the particle before initiating conversation,
the control center will say they are taking over without permission and the
player loses the level. If the null particle hits the space station, the
player will be chastised and they also lose.
The level ends when the null particle hits some target object.
As bonus content, the player can venture out of the space station and
visit the target object. They will find a team of unknown humans mining
an asteroid and the player chases them away.

Level 4:
The player spawns in a flat spacetime with rotated coordinates.
The player begins as being stationary to the lab reference frame.
They appear near a space station that is also stationary in the same frame.
The player moves to the space station, and starts conversation.
The crew of the space station tell the player that they are testing a
new toll booth design, and need the player to move at a specific speed near
its maximum designed speed to ensure that it correctly captures information.
They say the player's HUD is already adjusted to align with the toll booth's
requirements, so the player just needs to maintain constant coordinates.
The player then needs to start moving, appearing stationary with respect to
the coordinate system. They will pass the toll booth with the required
velocity. Then the player needs to slow down and converse with another
space station on the other side of the toll booth.

Level 5:
The player spawns in a flat spacetime with cartesian coordinates.
The game already has some history of the player's location, before the spawn
the player remained stationary at some location. There is an earliest time,
where the player's spacecraft was launched.
To one side the player is a large solid wall. Crashing into the wall will
destroy the player's craft and make them lose.
The player sees two nearby spacecraft. They move and crash into each other
soon in the player's future, and the player cannot reach either spacecraft
quickly enough before they crash.
The crash leaves behind rubble, which the player can take pieces of.
At some distance from the crash site, there is a space station. The crew of
the station don't know the player and generally don't want to talk much.
The player can present the rubble to the space station, and they will
recognize the spacecraft that had crashed. The station notices that the player
uses a very modern craft that supports non-causal communications. They will
offer an anti-null particle to the player so that they can undo the crash.
The player is told to fire the anti-null particle to their past self.
The anti-null particle travels like a null particle, but backward in time. It
reaches the player's past and the player can move to one of the craft to warn
them of the crash. The craft will move out of the way.
The craft will tell the player that the other craft must have lost control
for it to have crashed. If so, the other craft will still crash into the large
wall. The other craft will pass near a moon which can send a team to rescue
the crew of the uncontrollable spacecraft.
The player needs to visit the moon before the other spacecraft passes it.
This is only possible with teleportation, so the first spacecraft offers
a teleportation anchor. The player fires this anchor in the direction of
the moon, teleports there and communicates with the moon to end the level.


Schwarzschild zone:

Level 1:
The player spawns in a Schwarzschild spacetime with Schwarzschild coords.
The player is confined to one dimensional motion. They spawn in sight of a
station that is stationary with respect to lab coordinates, and is closer
to the black hole.
The player must navigate toward the station. They will feel the effects of
gravity pulling them back to the black hole.
At the station, the player converses with the crew. The player talks about
how there had been several anomalous black holes, and he wanted to conduct a
simple experiment on this one to measure its mass and see if there is
anything strange about it. The crew converse and say they can send the player
outward in an lightweight test craft, reach zero velocity near some specific
radius, and fall back.
The crew will take away the player's energy and give them a single boost.
On return, the crew measures the time spent on the journey. But due to a
malfunction in their docking system, they couldn't catch the player.
The player falls into the event horizon and the level ends.
The player loses if they don't follow the sequence, e.g. if they fall early
or don't have the right velocity.

Level 2:
The player spawns in a Schwarzschild spacetime with Schwarzschild coords.
The player spawns stationary with respect to the lab frame.
The player talks about visiting an uncolonized system and wanting to explore
the system more. The game teaches how to locate neighboring objects.
There will be a planet orbiting near the innermost stable orbit.
The player will need to approach the planet and have low relative velocity, so
the player can land on the planet.
The planet is not inhabited, though there are empty research stations on it.
The player will find additional energy, and power collector stations pointed
at a radius closer to the black hole.
There will also be blueprints to a particle ring, and a description that the
ring is an engine that sustains itself with infalling matter. The ring is said
to be in an idle state, where it can be started up with an injection of
orbiting particles.
The player must find the ring at an unstable orbit radius. Along the ring are
boosters that are stationary with respect to the lab frame.
The player must move at a certain speed through each booster to activate them.
The speed is such that the player remains in a circular orbit.
After passing through each booster, the ring ramps up to full power and the
level is complete.

Level 3:
The player spawns in a Schwarzschild spacetime with Eddington-Finkelson coords.
The player spawns in orbit around the black hole.
There will be another station orbiting the black hole.
There will be an object appearing near the player's spawn point which
only exists for a short time. It is a packet of exotic matter.
The player can converse with this station, and in small talk the station will
talk about how they have found an alien artifact that they believe constructs
a megastructure around the singularity of a black hole. It requires exotic
matter and they do not have any, however.
The player can give the exotic matter to the station, and they will be
surprised and unprepared. The station asks for the player to preserve the
exotic matter for a long time using time dilation, and will give the player
a lot of energy. In the meanwhile, they will teleport away to their main base
to retrieve the alien artifact.
The player must dive close to the event horizon and hover near it at close
to the speed of light.
When the station returns, the player brings the exotic matter back and it is
stabilized inside a probe. The probe studies the dynamics of the black hole
interior for some time, while the station studies the dynamics of the exterior.
After another period of time, the station will send a data packet in
the form of a null particle along a central column, and the player must
intercept it. Afterwards, the player must move toward the singularity to
complete the injection of exotic matter. The probe will produce two
teleportation anchors, which the player uses to escape the singularity while
the probe survives and begins automated construction.
After the data packet, there will be an infalling spacecraft. If the player
times their actions a certain way, they can encounter the other spacecraft by
teleporting inside the black hole, then pulling the other spacecraft out
with another teleportation. This is a bonus objective.

Level 4:
The player spawns in a Schwarzschild spacetime with time-reversed
Eddington-Finkelson coords.
The player spawns in orbit around the black hole.
The player appears near an orbiting planet. It appears to have been destroyed.
There is also a null particle exiting the black hole. It turns out to be
exotic particles that the player can store. There is no explanation
attached to it and the player will make a comment about their confusion.
The player holds many anti-null particles. They can travel backward to find a
time when the planet is still intact. They can start conversation with the
planet and talk about the future destruction, which raises panic as the
residents have heard of the mysterious attacks, but that they didn't understand
it. The attacking probes are of alien origin and the phenomenon only happened
near some particularly ancient black holes. The residents use teleportation
to leave the black hole, but the attack cannot be prevented.
The player can send a anti-null particle to trace the origin of the
mysterious null particle. It will trace back into the white hole, where a
foreign yet human spacecraft is found. The spacecraft will send a null
particle directly at the incoming anti-null particle.
The player can store these null particles and bring them to the planet.
At the time of the alien attack, the particles react and the aliens decide to
retreat. This completes the level.
At some point in the future, the mysterious spacecraft exits the white hole
and enters the regular universe. If approached directly, the spacecraft
instinctively attacks and the player is destroyed through what oddly seems
like an internal malfunction.
If approached with 1 - 2 sets of mysterious particles, the player will observe
that the particles react when nearing the spacecraft and destroy its
containment. The player concludes that they may be some kind of weaponry,
then the player's craft seemingly destroys itself.
If the player has three sets of the mysterious particles, the other spacecraft
will instinctively take evasive action instead of directly attacking, then
realize that they are not being attacked and that the player is not an enemy.
They will directly start conversation asking where the player originates from
and how they came to possess so much weaponry.
The player will talk about what had happened.
The spacecraft will identify itself as coming from the parallel universe.
They will say that they were falling into a black hole while battling a
robotic force, but miraculously they found a structure near the singularity
which expanded the would-be tiny ring singularity and let the craft pass.
The robot swarm also followed. The mysterious particles turn out to be
microscopic robots that sabotage mechanical vehicles internally like a
robotic analogue of a bioweapon.
The spacecraft was able to repel the attack on them at least, and warns the
player to be careful near such eternal primordial black holes. This whole
sequence is a bonus objective.
If this objective is complete, the particles will be properly named in
future levels as corrosive anti-materiel weaponry.

Level 5:
The player spawns in a Schwarzschild spacetime with Penrose coords.
The player starts in orbit. First, they must travel to a nearby station
where they find they are in the business of mining exotic minerals from
near black holes. They will be given anti-materiel weaponry, though it's
only known as some kind of mysterious repellent.
The player is also given a few teleportation anchors.
Using the teleportation anchor, the player travels through the black hole
into the parallel universe.
Inside the parallel universe, there will be a mineral rich asteroid. The
player can match its velocity and extract minerals.
Then the player can teleport back and return the minerals.
If the player travels deep into the parallel universe, they will find a giant
spherical space station. If the player is carrying exotic minerals, the
space station will have someone collect the minerals once the player reaches
the surface. The minerals will also be identified as being a power source
for the space station's main weapon. This is an optional objective.


Kerr zone:

Level 1:
The player spawns in a Kerr spacetime with Boyer-Lindquist coordinates.
The player starts in far orbit at a station. They are tasked with evaluating
the habitability of two planets in the system, before returning to the station.
One planet is at the innermost counter-rotating circular orbit, and another is
at the innermost co-rotating circular orbit.
The black hole has a high angular momentum, so the co-rotating orbit is close
to the black hole.
The player must be efficient in visiting the orbits, as there is a time limit
at the station. The player also has their own time limit, and the planets
will be arranged so that the most efficient route goes to the innermost
planet first before doing a slingshot to the outer planet.

Level 2:
The player spawns in a Kerr spacetime with Boyer-Lindquist coordinates.
The player starts near an empty orbiting planet. The player recognizes that
the mechanisms can be powered with a familiar power source, though a lot
of energy is needed.
There is a facility on the opposite end of the orbit which appears to send
pellets of capturable energy at the black hole. It sends a significant amount,
though not enough to power the planet.
The player notes that the energy pellets quite fragile, and will split into
multiple pellets if hit with null particles.
The player holds null particles and can induce the splitting.
If the pellets are split at some point in the ergosphere, it's possible
to make the escaping pellet have more energy than the starting pellet.
The player should repeat this process a few times to get the energy needed
to power the planet.

Level 3:
The player spawns in a Kerr spacetime with Kerr coordinates.
The player again is tasked with mining exotic minerals. They are given
teleportation anchors again and anti-materiel weaponry again.
From the conversation, it's clear that this is the first time they are
attempting extraction from this black hole, though scouts have went through
and confirmed the existence of the minerals.
The level is similar to Schwarzchild level 5, there is an asteroid with the
minerals waiting on the other side.
But the player finds they cannot mine more than a small amount from the
surface, even though they came prepared with good tools. The main ore veins
are not easy to access in this particular asteroid.
Inside the inner horizon, the player finds a lone robotic probe. It talks
about having just completed a mission and being sacrificed by being left
inside the black hole. It is wary of the player's weaponry.
The player can apply the anti-material weaponry to destroy and salvage
the probe. It will find some unfamiliar materials.
The materials causes a chain reaction in the asteroid, blasting it to pieces
and completing the mission.
There is also a few rocks in the player's original universe. The player can
use the anti-material weaponry on the rocks, which does nothing.
But in doing so, the player can approach the robotic probe. It will be more
aggressive and talk about how it's unable to destroy but would if it can.
The player can offer the teleportation anchors. The robotic probe say it does
not know what they are, confusing the player a little. Then the player will ask
the probe to follow, which the probe does because it offers another opportunity
to be useful to their homeworld.
Once the player lands on the mineral rich asteroid, the probe will find the
mineral rich asteroid and destroy it because of its potential utility to its
enemy. The probe will part ways, and the player can complete the mission with
one of the fragments. This is an optional solution to the level.
In either case, back at the home base the player is chastised for destroying
a valuable mine. It is revealed that the mineral is a superconducting
material and that humans from some universes are paying high prices for it.
But the leader of the mining team is intrigued by the chain reaction
phenomenon. They decide that the properties of the materials could be
studied further.

Level 4:
The player spawns in a Kerr spacetime with Penrose coordinates.
The player is from the machine race and has just completed a mission.
Near the spawn point is rubble from a destroyed station.
The spacetime loops and has a total of 8 universes.
Three of the negative space region belongs to the machine race, and has a
main base. One of the regions is eerily empty.
The player returns to one of their bases, and is given a new mission to chase
two enemy craft while bringing them back. They are given enough energy to
travel many parallel universes.
The player must enter the positive spaces and find the two craft.
The two craft will say that they wandered from their starting universe and
couldn't find their way back. They went in and went out, but didn't return
to their starting point. They miss their home world.
The player notices that the craft use a new class of technology, so they will
be studied at the machine base before ultimately being destroyed. The craft
are pulled into the player's craft. The player also remarks that the craft
didn't even know the looping structure of this particular black hole.
The empty negative space universe is marked as empty and it's made to appear
useless / boring. But if the player travels deep enough into it, there will
appear to be an anomalous point.
At the anomalous point there will be an ancient machine being. The player
will show surprise (in some machine way) and identify the ancient machine as
the machine race's second birthworld and the first spacetime architect.
The ancient machine was created to help machinekind escape the heat death of
their home universe. The machines have learned how to create tunnels into
other universes through its computations.
The ancient machine will talk about how the multiversal travel was not the
full story. It says some cryptic things about how the humans exist as the
perfect enemy, being adaptable and adventurous and tenacious. It envisions
that the scattered humans will eventually group together and face machinekind,
and the end is either that the humans will win or that the multiverse ends
in a fiery end. In either case, the ancient being will be satisfied with the
outcome as it would have prevented the heat death of all universes.
The probe does not fully understand, but logs the information to bring back to
their base. This encounter is an optional sequence.
If the optional sequence is done, then an alternative ending is available to
the level. One of the positive spaces contains the two craft's homeworld.
The player can bring the craft to their own homeworld. Since the player
fails to complete their mission, they no longer can return to their base and
are no longer fit to serve machinekind. The level ends when the player
destroys itself at one of the black hole's singularities.

Level 5:
The player spawns in a Kerr spacetime with Kerr coordinates.
The player pilots a human spacecraft. They are a military craft sent to
reinforce a strategic position against machinekind. At the start of the level
the player is too late and the forward base is already destroyed.
Near the destroyed base is another spacecraft. It sees that the player has
plenty of energy and suggests using the black hole to travel back and join the
battle against the machines. It gives the player a teleportation anchor,
saying it is necessary to complete the maneuver.
The player uses the black hole singularity to travel across closed timelike
curves to go backward in time in the inner horizon. Deeper into negative
space is a defensive front constructed by machines which destroys the player.
After traveling far back enough, the player uses the teleportation anchor
to return to the starting universe and join the other craft to defend the
forward base.
The machines will make a remark about how the humans are unexpectedly
resourceful and reckless in that they were able to use enemy technology
to their advantage in ways they didn't know possible. The machines retreat
to tell their kind to defend the ring singularity against this maneuver.
Resource: https://arxiv.org/pdf/0708.2324.pdf
The CTC moves in the opposite direction of the black hole's spin, and requires
moving alongside the singularity in the negative space region.


Cosmic zone:

Level 1:
The player spawns near a rotating cosmic string.
The player is from the machine race. They see human crafts teleport away from
an offense and are too late to complete the mission.
However, the player notes that the cosmic string will ensure success in the
mission, by allowing an attack before the teleportation can finish.
The player must travel across a closed timelike curve near the cylinder to
go backward in time and intercept the human craft.
Near the human craft is an octahedral structure similar to the one seen from
Minkowski zone level 2. The player will state that it appears to be an
experimental device that is unlikely to be a weapon.
Even further into the past, there will be a craft shipping various materials
to the location. It is filled with exotic minerals. If the player finds this
craft, they will recognize the minerals as being used in weaponry in a
different parallel universe. This confuses the player as the minerals, in its
refined state, is highly unstable and only capable of destruction. The machine
race had underestimated the technological capabilities of the residents of
this universe due to their weak weaponry, but they appear to be masters of
harnessing exotic materials and power sources.
Resource: https://inis.iaea.org/collection/NCLCollectionStore/
_Public/23/072/23072659.pdf
The CTC moves in the direction of the cosmic string's spin when close enough
to the string.

Level 2:
The player spawns near a pair of wormholes, well-defended by machine craft.
Near each wormhole, there is a human spacecraft. Two machine planets are under
beseige from the humans. The player is to defend the planets.
The machine planets are closer to each other than the wormholes are.
One human base is a large battlecruiser and the other is a minor force.
The battlecruiser holds three missiles and the minor force holds one. As a bit
of lore, there is description about the missiles produce energy out of nothing
using acausal processes, resulting in high potential for destruction in an
especially small package.
There is a window of time for the player to get into position.
First, the battlecruiser fires two of its missiles, one to the nearby planet
and the other to the distant planet. The missile traveling to the distant
planet moves at light speed.
Simultaneously, the minor force fires its only missile to its nearby planet.
Later, the battlecruiser fires its last missile to its nearby planet. It's
timed so that it impacts the planet at the same time the distant missile
impacts its planet.
The player must intercept the slower missiles in either order. Then the player
must travel to the planet near the minor force and take the long way to
intercept the fast missile early. This gives enough time to intercept the
fourth missile, completing the mission.
Resource: Use bipolar coordinates while transforming
tau -> tanh(atanh(|tau| - 1) * sign(tau), and mimic the Ellis wormhole metric

Level 3:
The player spawns in a flat universe dominated by dark energy.
The player is from machinekind, they are tasked with scouring the universe
for remaining raw materials to bring to the Matrioshka brain.
Across the level are three power sources. One is a near-critical black
dwarf, another is a binary neutron stars, and the third is a black dwarf
orbiting a supermassive Kerr black hole. The level seems to take place in the
universe's degenerate era.
The player represent a fleet of worker drones under a supercarrier. They will
induce supernovae in the near-critical black dwarves, pull neutron stars into
hypernovae, and extract gravitational binding energy from the black dwarves
orbiting the supermassive Kerr black holes. Each step requires some time.
Throughout the process, the universe expands due to dark energy, creating a
time limit and an optimal order to visit all the sources before they fall past
the cosmological horizon and become inaccessible.
The player starts near the supermassive Kerr black hole, which also the
location of the Matrioshka brain. The near-critical black dwarf is most distant
and the window of opportunity to visit it while being able to come back is
short, so the player needs to go there first. The binary neutron star used to
be fairly close to the spawn point and a little farther from the near-critical
black dwarf than the spawn point was. Due to dark energy, after extracting
the near-critical black dwarf the neutron stars are near the cosmological
horizon. After extracting the binary neutron star, the Kerr black hole is
near the cosmological horizon.
After an extraction, the player must fire a null particle containing the
energy to a spherical zone near the Kerr black hole. When the particle enters
the zone, it becomes an energy capacitor that keeps a constant distance
to the Kerr black hole. If the player doesn't fire the particle, they
are limited to 20% light speed, which is too slow to finish the level.
After all extractions, the player must return to the spherical zone to
recollect their energy and bring it to the Kerr black hole. There, they can
converse with the Matrioshka brain.
The Matrioshka brain will talk about how it will use the energy and what it
can slowly extract out of the neighboring Kerr black hole to survive as long
as possible and solve what it calls the final question. From its words, it is
implied that the final question is that of surviving the heat death of the
universe, and that this Matrioshka brain will eventually be known as the
second birthworld and the first spacetime architect of machinekind.

Level 4:
The player spawns in a closed universe dominated by matter.
The player is from mankind, they are in the middle of a vast machine-man war
that has spread across multiple universes.
Due to the ever-improving human technology and the trade roads they have set
between universes, their weaponry and power systems generate huge amounts of
mass energy out of nowhere. The universe will end in a big crunch.
The machines were forced to enter an arms race with humans to maintain
control over the multiverse. The player is the captain of a fighter craft.
There are multiple scale factors in the level. At first, the zoom is high and
the geometry appears to be flat.
The player decides to chase and destroy a nearby machine L4 craft, which
is suspiciously not moving. It is near a disabled human frigate.
It turns out the enemy had lured the player into a trap. In each of the six
cardinal directions (i.e. octahedron vertices), a spherical shell of
destruction that the player calls a hypervelocity debris cloud expands to
trap and destroy the player.
The player must move to the frigate. There, he will give a morale-boosting
speech to his and the frigate's crew about surviving the attack. The crew
work to restore shields and repower the disabled craft, which takes a little
time. When successful, the craft survives the debris cloud. Afterward, the
player is regarded as the captain of the frigate, and the scale factor of the
level reduces so that they see more.
The player comes up with a plan to hijack even larger craft from the enemy.
They appear near a machine force's L2 craft, which is defended by a pair
of circling L3 craft. The player's force is equivalent to L3, so they will
be unable to defeat the L2 craft head-on.
The player can defeat and salvage the circling L3 craft. In the bridge of one,
they will find a communication interface. In another, they will find dashboards
and metrics tracking for the L2 craft's weapons and defense systems. In either
case, the player will wire the enemy bridge's computer systems into their
power for further investigation. If the player then brings these two items
together, a scientist will identify an opportunity to sabotage enemy
communications by routing them to the weapons systems, though they cannot
reverse engineer the method of controlling either system directly.
Upon doing this, the L2 craft's shields will power down and an octahedral
arrangement of super-radiant bombs will detonate. The player must hijack
into the L2 craft and take a little time to fight the gateway sentinels /
restore shields to survive the expanding shells of destruction.
After this, the scale factor of the level expands again. There will be a
Kerr black hole sitting for what seems to be no reason. There will be an L0
machine stronghold and a human base of operations visible nearby. At this scale,
the big crunch of the universe is evident and the player will comment about
how their time is limited and that victory really doesn't mean anything,
and that he's not sure what to do anymore. The player then gets a choice.
There is an L1 machine craft attacking the human world, and a human
supercarrier attacking the L0 machine stronghold. The player starts off
closer to the human world, and the time taken to visit the L0 stronghold is
a significant fraction of the remaining time limit before the big crunch.
If the player visits the human world, they will see the destruction from the
enemy L1 craft and their motivation will be revitalized. They will be
determined to defeat the machines and is hopeful that humanity will find a
solution to the big crunch. The player works together with the human world
to combine machine and human technology and destroy the L1 craft. In the
ending, the player remarks that eventually humans defeat the machines, but
despite humanity's best efforts to scout other universes and advance their
technology, they could not avoid the big crunch. This is the end of the level.
If the player visits the machine stronghold, they will communicate with the
human battlecruiser, which comes very close to destroying the player. The
player talks about surrendering to the machines and working under their
leadership to avoid the big crunch. The commander will originally reject the
idea, but the crew of the battlecruiser will talk about how the big crunch
had become inevitable even in other parallel universes and that the only
hope may be the spacetime architectural abilities of machinekind. Some
legitimate rebuttals are made about how machinekind was not strictly more
advanced, e.g. that humanity discovered acausal technology. But it was agreed
that some combination of technologies will be needed and that the machines
could not surrender due to their construction, so humanity had to surrender
for survival. Then the player must bring the commander back to the human
base to formalize the deal with the enemy. In the ending, the player talks
about how machinekind accepted a cease-fire but asserted that they cannot
cooperate with humans due to their construction. The humans resort to guerilla
tactics to steal and study machinekind's spacetime technology but neither
size could avoid the big crunch.
If the player had completed all the bonus objectives, then the seemingly
useless Kerr black hole becomes the key to the true ending. When the player
visits the Kerr black hole, they will find a capsule. Inside the capsule
are a pair of digital documents. They can be opened by the machine L2 craft's
computers. One is recognized to be an order from the second birthworld of
machinekind that has the ability to override all of machinekind's
programming. The other contains detailed explanations and plans for a
stabilization scheme that will prevent the big crunch - it appears to use
both the spacetime architectural technologies of machinekind and the acausal
and anti-entropy technologies of humans.
This capsule must be brought to both the L0 stronghold and the human world.
The machine L1 craft will cease fire upon seeing the command from the second
birthworld. The human battlecruiser will see the machine stronghold stop
firing and see the artifacts brought by the player. With the help of the crew,
the commander is convinced to join the player back to the human world to
follow the plan and stabilize the universe with the help of the machines.
It is revealed in the ending that the plan is a success, and humans join
machines to defend the universe from instability. This is the true end of
the game.
After the true end is completed, cosmic zone level 5 is unlocked.

Level 5:
The player spawns in Minkowski spacetime with cartesian coordinates.
The player appears inside a long space station with several familiar
characters in various corridors. The player represents a visiting test
pilot with a little time to kill before they start testing a new
faster-than-light propulsion system.
In the first corridor: there are a group of miners in the break room.
They are drunk and reminisce on how they almost got killed by a huge space
weapon on one of their mining expeditions, and that ironically this led to
an alliance between the humans of the two universes. This happened after a
different miner encountered the space station and found that they know the
minerals and had been using them in crude ways to build impressive weaponry.
The universe that the miners hailed from had highly developed material sciences
as they collected materials from multiple universes, and the universes
benefited from trade.
In the second corridor: a member of the defense crew is monitoring the space
station's defense systems. He has conflicting thoughts seeing the alliance
between humans and machines, having been a member of the space force fighting
machinekind. He had been surprised to learn that his war with the machines
was not limited to the universe he came from, and even more so that the
battle was much more one-sided in other universes. This eventually led to his
transfer to a division where he'd visit the other pockets of humanity to
educate them about the warring machines and seek mututally beneficial
agreements between his empire and other human sectors.
In the third corridor: a machine is constructing a self-assembling spacetime
manipulation artifact. It talks about how there were inherent contradictions
in its race. On the surface they are constantly opposing humanity, but their
threading of the universes greatly catalyzed the spread of humanity across
the multiverse as well as opening up interuniversal trade of materials and
ideas. The extents of their attacks seemed to adjust itself just right to
facilitate the unity of human nations and maximize the rate at which their
technologies develop. It suspects that their programming is intentionally
designed to ensure the eventual human-machine war that nearly led to the
end of all universes, and recalls a moment when its destruction of an asteroid
led to human discovery of anti-entropy processes.
In the fourth corridor: a machine is studying the universe stabilization
blueprint. It talks about its encounter with the second birthworld and how
its behaviors started to grow erratic. The machine's programming was being
rewritten and it decided to destroy itself before the metamorphisis can
be completed. Much later, a human had found fragments of the destroyed craft
and for some reason they decided to repair and reboot the machine. With new
programming the machine understood the inevitability of the big war. The
machine asked if the human knows of others like it, and with their help they
also inject the new programming to the machine from the third corridor. The two
were able to contribute to the creation of the reprogramming beacon and to
the universe stabilization scheme. It wonders whether the second birthworld
had foreseen the eventual alliance and stabilization of the multiverse back
when it injected the reprogramming virus in their encounter.
At the end of the station: the captain of the research facility is preparing
for the upcoming FTL experiment. The scientist is a little crazy and clearly
fascinated by the machinekind's spacetime technologies. He was eager to try
the new device and claimed that if the test pilot came too late, he'd might
just jump in the experimental ship and do the test himself. The player asked he
he got himself in danger with this attitude, and he said he actually fell into
a black hole and was somehow rescued by someone deploying a self-assembling
spacetime manipulation artifact. Through his association with this team of
scientists, he eventually was given this research station and in it, he met
the other characters and developed the plans to save the universe from the
big crunch. He asks if the player would like to start the experiment.
Once the player starts the experiment, a door at the end of the station opens
and the player should look for an FTL warp bubble moving across the region.
The game ends with credits when the player rides the bubble and reaches the
edge of the level in it.


Unlock order:
M1 unlocks M2 and S1.
M2 unlocks M3.
M3 unlocks M4, S2 and K1.
M4 unlocks M5 and S3.
M5 unlocks S4 and C1.
S1-S4 unlocks nothing.
K1 unlocks K2.
K2 unlocks K3.
K3 unlocks nothing.
K4 unlocks K5 and C2.
K5 unlocks nothing.
C1 unlocks nothing.
C2 unlocks nothing.
S5 + K3 unlocks K4.
Finishing all other levels unlocks C3.
C3 unlocks C4.
Finishing the true end unlocks C5.